!!title Godot and Mono
!!summary Getting Godot and C# working and splitting off RustyMon0game.
!!keywords rust web app cargo 3d 2d cross platform monogame godot curl wasm
!!series

## 0645

This morning I worked on getting Godot + Mono working on my dev environments. It was relatively simple, I just needed to manually install Mono on my Mac. After doing so I got it up and running, so no issues there. 

Why do this? I still plan on keeping my Rust-y Monogame project going in the background, but I would like to ship some things. It's a bit easier to do that with an existing engine than to rewrite everything from scratch. 

Why C#? Simple: Unity uses it, Godot uses it, Monogame uses it, and I have 5 years experience using it. Obviously it will be different than what I previously did, but I like the idea of building my core application out in C#, making it engine agnostic, then wiring it up to whichever engine I want to utilize. 

Why Godot? I've used it in the past with some friends and enjoyed how simple it was to get things running. I won't be utilizing it to the fullest extent on this project, but I think I can get some nifty stuff going. I want to leverage the 3d capabilities, though I'm not quite sure how I'll do so. Something anime flavored would be ideal.

I'll post up my Rusty Monogame project on Github. If you'd like to take a peek, [here is the code](https://github.com/ericrobolson/RustyMon0game).

With that done, I'll zero in on Godot + C# until I get bored or something comes of it.
