!!title Making a engine in Rust inspired by Monogame
!!summary Continuing an engine inspired by Monogame.
!!keywords rust web app cargo 3d 2d cross platform monogame godot curl
!!series

## 0649

I spent some more time working on an engine inspired by Monogame. The hope is I can target desktop + web with this as well as mobile and others. Haven't gotten there yet, but I'm planning on just going for desktop right now. 

It's the platform I'm most familiar with and can get something working the fastest in. I think web will be next, then mobile, then possibly the Quest.

Not sure if I want to do 2d or 3d yet, but I suspect 3d should be done first. If I go that route, it should be easy to do a 2d based on that. 

I've decided to add wasm as a compilation target now. I'm going to litter it with a bunch of `todo!()`'s so that I don't need to implement it, but it should help deal with inconsistencies.

## 0717

Well, I went a different route. I'm getting everything cross compiling now. There's still a lot I need to figure out, but here's a script that will take a project, then check and build it on all the listed targets.

```
# This script goes through all targets I'd like to support and cross compiles them to ensure it all works.

cd game

function build_target {
	TARGET=${1}
	rustup target add ${TARGET}
	cargo check --target ${TARGET}
	
	RESULT=$?
	[[ ! ${RESULT} == 0 ]] && echo "target ${TARGET} failed, exiting..." && exit ${RESULT}
}

build_target x86_64-pc-windows-msvc
build_target x86_64-pc-windows-gnu
build_target x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
build_target x86_64-apple-darwin
build_target wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

I still need to get the Apple and wasm targets building, but it's a starting point. 

Windows is the main issue, but I think I can cross compile with Mac and Linux pretty easily. That may be the route I take.