!!title On Lisp Again
!!summary Figuring out how to give Lisp a second chance.
!!keywords Lisp Common Tooling Visual Studio Script
!!series

## 0748

I've decided to give CL a second chance. Emacs + Slime is not a good experience, and the package management for CL is terrible. I would like to focus on the language without dealing with the terrible UX. 

Perhaps I'm being too aggressive and dismissive, but if a language is unable to engage users early on in the experience it will lose out on adoption. Visual Studio Code is an IDE I'm familiar with, so it's the one I'll utilize. 

For hacking, CL will be run in a `.sh` script that looks like the following:

```
# Set the start dir of this
START_DIR=$PWD

# Set the WatcherInTheDeep path
WITD_PATH="../_opensource/watcher_in_the_deep"

# Run the lisp program
cd $WITD_PATH
cargo run $START_DIR sbcl --noinform --disable-debugger --load "program.lisp" --eval "(quit)"

```

The above script starts WatcherInTheDeep, and when files change reruns the program. I expect this to evolve over time, but the gist is that I get a deterministic REPL without having to deal with absurd chording like Emacs utilizes. 

The project I am currently working on is a blog generator that takes in these `.md` files and spits out HTML. It's going to utilize a bottom up design, where I begin with HTML generation functions, then eventually move into loading + parsing the `.md` files, spitting out HTML and writing that to an artifact. 

It may use a hexagonal architecture, but that is likely overkill at this point. For now focusing on small functions that can be composed to build what I need.