!!title Mobile
!!summary Working on mobile experience for posts.
!!keywords Rust mobile screen space code blocks paragraph
!!series blog_gen

## 0617

I'll be starting on the mobile experience today. The only thing I know is I want it to be purely thumb driven, that is, no complex navigation. Screen space will be at a premium, so I'll utilize that heavily.

Code blocks are a definite problem. Just about everything else works perfectly well.

## 0706

So far so good. Got mobile formatting done, footer spacing done, CSS for quotes + code blocks and more responsiveness tweaks done.

One thing I would like to add is a 'paragraph' checker. That is, when it detects a chunk of text that is say greater than 144 characters long, it will emit a warning in the file. This way I can ensure that content is readable. 

After uploading the changed site, I still have some changes to take care of. The formatting on mobile isn't perfect yet, but that's ok. 

This is an iterative process that I'll get down eventually. While I would like to be done today, I suspect I won't be in a decent state until Monday. 

## 1701

I didn't particularly want to do this but I don't think there's any way around it. The code is leaning towards the unmaintainable.

There are two options:

1) Refactor heavily and attempt to salvage things
2) Archive this attempt and start over

I am leaning towards #2. Why? Simple: when you build something twice, it is far better. You can look at the first one and see areas that will cause headache later on.

One thing I am not sure of is whether I want to keep this a separate domain. I am leaning towards yes. Marketing will be easier and I can always link to this.

I won't have to worry as much about marketing everything under the same umbrella. Perhaps that is the greatest boon. 

If I do start over, and I think I will, I'll leave this content in place. The code that generates the pages is all that will change. 

As time goes on, I'm finding that the data is all that matters. If you always have the data, you can always regenerate things (such as a blog.) 

When I do start over, I will take better notes to show off the evolution of the project. I'll also take care to make it more data oriented and user friendly. 

Mobile will be the primary target when developing the website, and I may wire up a WitD shell to continually execute my changes.

I'll spend tomorrow writing requirements, as I won't have the entirety of the day to dedicate to this. I can start the general file structure as well. If only there were more time in a day.

c'est la vie

