!!title Ideas 2
!!summary Brainstorming architecture + online games continued.
!!keywords Rust architecture multiplayer turn based elixir underlords
!!series
## 0816

I will likely have two or more series going at once. That's another thing I'll be building into the `blog_gen`. 

Let's dive a bit more into the previous Ideas topic. I'll be pruning/updating/evolving this over time.

## Game Idea
Idea:
* Economy based, like Underlords. Win streaks, lose streaks and interest.
* Point based like 40k/Infinity. You do a draft at the start to determine the units you have access to.
* Realistic movement. Something like 40k or another war game where it is not limited to a grid.
* Starting positioning is key. Use a larger starting area that Underlords to see how that evolves gameplay.
* More terrain variety
* Autobattler where after position is locked in, the battle is automatically played. 30s tops

Architecture:
* Erlang-based backend
* * Elixir for the server: 'glue' + db
* * Rust as a NIF. The input is pulled from an ETS/Redis, ran through Rust, then put back. Treated as a functional lib that can be called.
* * [Rustler](https://github.com/rusterlium/rustler) will be used for writing NIFs. I'll likely write a script that automates part of this.
* RabbitMQ for messaging
* Native clients that render some form of DSL to interact with the backend
* * When releasing versions, have a locally seeded db. This then gets updated as time goes on through the server.
* * The locally seeded db is utilized when no internet is available or the player does not want to play online + update. 
* * When they want to go online, it pulls data from the server. 
* Network + Serialization
* * Ratelimiting
* * Elixir Channels for communication protocol
* * REST for non-websockety things (login, logout, etc.)
* * Preprocessor that looks at Rust structs + enum, then outputs DTO's in all client + server languages. Haskell is another option.
* * FlatBuffers for communication. [See article](https://google.github.io/flatbuffers/). The spec is small, it's fast, and it's supported in most languages. 
* * Serialization is done in Rust, passed as a byte array to Elixir's channel, then sent out. Deserialized on the client, stored in the local db, done.