!!title Verlet Integration
!!summary On bugs with physical simulations, pivoting and art.
!!keywords rust verlet integrator 2d dead cells 3d pixel art
!!series chaostar

## 0726

There's some form of bug with my integrator. It tends to align on the z-axis, which is definitely not wanted. I need to do some digging to determine what should be done here. 

Alternatively, I could switch to a pure 2d model and utilize that. In doing so, I could completely switch my coordinates to i32's, which are purely deterministic and would reduce the overhead of a fixed point number. 

It would unfortunately restrict the ability to do 3d, but that may not be a bad thing. At this point painting or pixel art seems to be faster for me to knock out, especially if I utilize a Dead Cells art flow. It also opens up the ability to target mobile


## 0755

I've made a decision. 2d pixel art will be the way forward. This means that I don't have to spend quite as much time on assets and don't need to spend quite as much time on complex art.

Game choices:
1) Pixel art (possibly using Dead Cells workflow)
2) Fully deterministic 2d based physics using i32s
3) Open world, fully simulated at all times like Rain World
4) Ragdolls + procedural animations like Rain World
5) Rollback netcode (enables coop or pvp)
6) Escape from Tarkov like main loop, with physical based combat?
7) STRETCH: Noita based cellular automata destruction

In a sentence, this game is a physics based combat sim where you execute raids to level up your character in between server wipes.

I need to adjust my road map to accommodate this, and will do so later today. I still plan on utilizing a Verlet based integration system, however it will be tailored to 2d. I'm going to go for speed of development and not go for a 'perfectly coded' system. It will evolve over time, and that's OK. Don't need to get it perfect immediately. 