!!title 2d Verlet Integration
!!summary Switching to a 2d Verlet Integrator, deterministic numbers and Rain World.
!!keywords rust verlet integrator 2d rain world deterministic 3d pixel art
!!series chaostar

## 0618

I've started implementing a 2d Verlet integrator. This will be far more simplistic than the 3d one, as it will utilize int32 based vectors. I don't quite know how the math will shake out, and I strongly suspect the renderer will need to be switch up.

That's fine though, as this should theoretically reduce the math required to implenment a working solution and reduce the issues I ran into with strange behaviour.

The GDC on Rain World's animations system brought up a good point: If you can fake it, do so. I care more about the visuals and general effects of an IK + ragdoll system, I do not care about the 'trueness' to reality of it. I want something fun, something sexy, and something that is fast.

## 0719

Generics were a good idea, but complicate things. I'll be removing all generics I have regarding rendering + simulation numbers and not looking back. There will be separate types for physics + rendering, so I can use a determinisitc number (i32s) for physics and a non-deterministic one (f32s) for rendering. 

I can't really take the time to deal with all trait inconsistencies and implementations, so I will burn it down and move on. I can't take too much time for each feature as otherwise the game won't come together.

It's not a easy process, but I think it will reduce the complexity of my engine and enable me to iterate quicker. There's now several core types with different purposes:

Simulation:

- IVec2 - A `X,Y` i32 vector for 2d physics
- IDegrees - A i16 based type that represents degrees used for physics rotations

Rendering:

- Mat4 - A 4x4 f32 matrix for transforms in the GFX world
- Quaternion - A f32 type used for 3d rotations
- Vec3 - A `X,Y,Z` f32 type used for positions

These should cover my needs for a 2d engine, and allow a 3d expansion over time. I'd have to figure out a 3d simulation that's deterministic but that is out of scope.


## 1832

I've got a memory leak somewhere. When your app hits 42gb of application memory when you're attempting to draw a triangle, something went terribly wrong. 