!!title Input Mapping
!!summary Input polling, input mapping and LOVR.
!!keywords Rust input polling lover vr chaostar
!!series chaostar

## 0657

Added a basic input mapper. Actions are wired up, then when input occurs it's checked to see if it's active. I don't particularly like the implementation right now, so I am going to convert it to an input poller that then gets queried by the system. While events may be preferable, I don't really care as polling is simpler to implement. 

## 0722

Input polling has been added to Chaostar. While it's not the most elegant, it serves the purpose and will enable me to progress with other things. I could easily add ranges later on or perhaps triggers, but that's not necessary. I still want to work on IceCream, but that can wait a bit. 

I do like the idea of utilizing the React model for game UI's, and perhaps writing a compiler in Lisp that spits out code (JS, bytecode, Xamarin, Monogame, whatever) across multiple platforms to ensure I can easily write cross platform apps. Primary goal is to ship something in Rust, even if it is not the game I'd want. 
 
I'd also like to experiment with [LOVR](https://lovr.org/). Terrible name that makes me thing it is a VR porn framework, but alas. Perhaps it can also be wired up using IceCream? I may never get to the quality of Resident Evil 8's renderer, but that may not be necessary. If I can generate products easily that do not require maintenance, or are easily portable, perhaps I can leverage that.

For work and personal tasks, I've been using a 'roadmap'. This is a simple checkbox list of tasks that must be wrapped up. The nice part is for large projects, as things get knocked out the momentum builds up. 

Multiple players have been added as well as the start of systems in this engine. It's relatively simple, but I'm starting to like how it is coming together.