!!title Watcher in the Deep
!!summary Watcher in the Deep: A file watching program.
!!keywords Watcher Deep Lord of the Rings Cargo File Watcher
!!series

## 0653

I've wrapped up a basic version of `Watcher in the Deep`. Couldn't think of any other name, so Lord of the Rings it is. It's relatively simple and bare bones, as it takes in a directory and a system command to execute. Not much more is required.

There are several use cases for it:

1) `cargo test` - This effectively enables a REPL using TDD for Rust.
2) `sbcl --load "SOME STUFF"` - This enables me to use CL in a non REPL way. I think I prefer the TDD feedback loop rather than interacting with a REPL. This enables more consistent runs and ensures that I'm testing my code.
3) Art assets. In the event that I make a game, I could see myself using a workflow like [Dead Cells](https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/313026/Art_Design_Deep_Dive_Using_a_3D_pipeline_for_2D_animation_in_Dead_Cells.php). Possibly combine with [Heimdall](https://github.com/ericrobolson/Heimdall) or some other hot reloading thing.

Turns out I like hot reloading/file watching. 

I think the next steps are creating some form of automation to execute a list of commands when the `main` or `master` branch is merged to. I like CICD and automation, as there's only so much I can do in a day. Some requirements I'd like to see are 
1) Convert my `_blog` files into HTML and post that to [GGezBB](https://www.ggezbb.fun/). I prefer `.md` files for writing and would rather not manage a static website. A simple Lisp generator perhaps + ability to upload to my server.
2) Create + merge in MR's for my `_opensource` projects. I like having things in one place to work on, but I would like to ensure that separate repos are created and maintained. Basically a trickle down effect. If others contribute I'll have to revisit how this works, but that is not a concern for now.
3) CICD for web projects.

There's more I'm sure, but that's the bare minimum I'd like to see happen. Not sure which tech I'll use yet so stay tuned.

