!!title Greener Grass
!!summary On different languages, the appeal of the new shiny and Verlet integration.
!!keywords Rust chaostar verlet greener grass gltf
!!series chaostar

## 0632

Well, the grass is always greener on the other side. There's really nothing more to say about that, other than it is a real struggle. Constantly bombarded by new languages, designs, ideas, frameworks, it's hard to stick to one thing. 

I'm starting to get the feeling that it isn't necessarily a crucial idea, it's execution. This includes the grind. Really, that's the hardest part right now. 

I have a roadmap for Chaostar, and though I have other ideas, I think I need to see it through. I don't want to spend ages on it as I want to do other things, but I do need to release something. 

Next up on the road map is going to be a Verlet integrator. [See this paper for reference.](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/afs/cs/academic/class/15462-s13/www/lec_slides/Jakobsen.pdf) I am not sure whether to do 2d or 3d, as it will impact performance greatly. 

An idea is to use generics, with an `impl Trait` for all parts. Then depending on the engine, I can execute it and go from there. I can flesh out the primitives using debug shapes, which will be expanded upon. After I can add in 3d mesh file loader and replace the primitives with actual meshes. 

Which format to utilize? Well, there's GLTF and OBJ. OBJ is faster to get running, but GLTF has more possibilities. Animations, PBR, etc. I will absolutely not utilize all features of the format, but perhaps as time goes on I will..

Back to physics. The branch has been made and code will start. I will use a separate crate for this, and possibly do a mix of test driven development and type driven development.

I am not sold on utilizing multiplayer quite yet. There's several avenues:
1) Pivot to 2d single player Metroidvania like Rainworld 
2) Pivot to 3d FPS combat sim that's a cross between Escape from Tarkov and Chivalry/Mordhau. Possibly multiplayer, or a roguelike to start? Sequel contains MP?
3) Pivot to a single player RE8 clone with Deadspace physics (dismemberment)

An option is to pick a non-multiplayer option, build it with the potential to add multiplayer, and then add it in a sequel or spin off.

One thing I am doing is adding a `hack.sh` script to each project. This typically will start WatcherInTheDeep with `cargo test`. Having a feedback loop like this is extremely nice, as I just have to save a file and it runs everything. 

For the Verlet implementation, I am basically copying the code verbatim (to an extent, it's C and I'm using Rust), then renaming + refactoring it to meet my needs. Once the algorithm is implemented I can move on to changing it to fit my needs. I am not sure what to unit test here, for now I will implement it and wire it up to the simulation. 

I'm wondering if I should implement some sort of serialization layer so I can tweak config files rather than recompile. That may be an excellent goal to do after this part of the code is wrapped up.

## 1200

[This is the reason why I'm doing Verlet.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVntwsrjNe4)

[This is another inspiration.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVntwsrjNe4)

[To watch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVntwsrjNe4)

## 1712

It's ironic how stupid mistakes can bring a simulation to a screeching halt. I'm referring to arithmetic overflow due to a mixup between a `+` and a `*` symbol. It compiles, so it works, right? 

For the blog generator, I would like to start adding gifs to them. How, I'm not entirely sure, but I think it would be a good thing to start doing when I get more visual elements going. Hell, it may be worth doing now. The idea is I'd embed a gif in the readme, then the website generator would link it in. 

Perhaps a project that tweets when I release one of these?

## 2202

One idea would be an image classifier. You load images into an app, and it goes through them. You can swipe images in 4 directions, 2 are categories, 1 is add a new category, and 1 is categorize later. From there it builds up albums of images you can then browse. Canidate for Lisp?