!!title Bottom Up Design
!!summary On Emacs, VS Code and bottom up design.
!!keywords Emacs VS Code Bottom Up Design Lisp
!!series

## 0643

When doing a new language or tooling, pick a pet project. Do it in different languages or things like that to notice the differences. For example, I'm learning Emacs right now. All the things I'm doing related to code are in Emacs, though I still have VS Code around for when I can't figure something out in a timely manner. 

While VS Code comes with more out of the box and is far easier to get up and running, Emacs + Slime is the de facto way to hack Lisp code. When in Rome...

## 2051

One interesting thing I've read about is bottom up design. Typically you determine the lowest parts you need to implement, and build those out. The idea is that by doing this, the risk of failure is minimized. As systems change, the cost of a failure shrinks when it's a small chunk. 

I'm not totally sure how it would work out in my projects, but it sounds intriguing. I think to start with I'll implement something simple, such as a JavaScript game. Lisp will be utilized, but I'm not sure how.

What are the parts of a game engine?

* User input
* Network input
* Main Loop
* Network output
* Audio Rendering
* GFX Rendering

How to break it up for bottom up design?

For BB:
* Timestepping (gaffer on games article)
* User input + input mapper
* Network input
* Network output
* GGPO/rollback

Is there an easier project to do? What scope can be cut?

Required:
* Rollback netcode
* 60hz timestepping


