!!title Rust Again
!!summary Requirements for game design with Rust.
!!keywords Lisp Rust Deterministic simulation rollback netcode hexagonal architecture
!!series chaostar

## 0613

Lisp is taking some getting used to. Progress is slow, but it's good to be learning a new language again. I'm not quite sure when I'll get the markdown to html converter up and running, but that's fine. For now I'm building a backlog of posts.

I do want to get back into game development with Rust. I think a bottom up approach with TDD would be an interesting experiment. There's several options I could take, but a hexagonal architecture will be key. While a generic engine would be dope, I'm unsure that is the proper approach. Simply building + releasing something would be ideal.

Requirements:
* Deterministic simulation
* Lockstep or rollback netcode
* Synchronization of inputs
* Hexagonal architecture
* 2d
* Real time
* Verlet physics

That's a good starting point. Real time is simpler for me to grok, and simpler for me to implement. 

## 0715

I've started blocking out that project. Also added some tweaks to WITD so ignore directories could be specified so that it isn't reran whenever there are `bin` or `target` changes. I've added a simplistic MVP goal and a roadmap to see how it turns out. This may be too much to do for one person, but as usual I attempt to reach far. 

Code name `Chaostar`, but that's likely to change. Hope is a Nidhogg/Bushido Blade like fighting game where it's ragdoll based. Not intended to be competitive, but is intended to be ridiculous. 

Focus will be 2d to really push what can be done on a GFX level and simulation level. While 3d is the trend these days, I will not be able to really push the physics as hard as I would like with rollback in a 3d plane. Perhaps a sequel would be 3d, but that's out of scope for now.

I may pull code from `noiseless_mountain`, but that project is retired for now. Perhaps it will be revisited in the future.