!!title Deciding on a host
!!summary Mulling on how to progress the engine in a fast manner. 
!!keywords rust gamedev no_std ggpo rollback netcode fighting game unity unreal monogame c# godot haxe
!!series august_moon

## 0627

I'm at a bit of a crossroads. There's two paths I can take, each of which will drastically shape how this project progresses. 

## Full native Rust application
Pros:
* One language across all platforms
* I'm very familiar with the language
* Easy multithreading and other safety features
Cons:
* Not sure how to port to new platform
* Ecosystem can be lacking
* GFX, Audio, user input need to be handled by me

## Embedded Rust logic dll
Pros:
* Able to leverage a native platform's components 
* Easier to port to new platforms
* Just need to implement a 'runtime' on each separate platform
* Don't need to touch GFX, audio or user input
Cons:
* I don't know all platforms
* FFI 
* Data marshalling 
* REALLY uncharted territory


## Making the choice

While I love writing code in Rust, I do not think I can effectively bootstrap an engine and a game at the same time. I DO want to look to the future and ensure I can port code when necessary. Thus the core of my applications will be done in a `#![no_std]` Rust library to ensure easy porting.

Here's the list of engines I'll pick from:
* Unity 
* Unreal
* Godot
* Monogame
* Haxe


I can have a interface with the Rust DLL, and in the background run the Rust code in a separate thread. Communications would be done through channels and message passing to ensure that I don't need to worry about locking.

I'll noodle on which engine to go with as well as the pros and cons. My gut is that Unreal will be easiest to bootstrap an integration with, but Unity will be easier to write the host implementation. The open source ones will allow most profit, at the expense of possibly having to implement my own fixes. 