!!title Engine refactor attempts
!!summary Refactoring the engine structure.
!!keywords rust gamedev no_std ggpo rollback netcode fighting game
!!series august_moon


## 0759 

The netcode is progressing well. The rollback is nearly ready to test out and the network connection is getting there. I want to work on another part of the engine to get more visibility into what I'm doing.

Today I'll work a bit on the main loop of the engine. I don't quite know how this will work with web, so I'll strictly focus on PC for now. Other platforms will be another task.

I'll start by creating a new `window` module and a new `event_in` module. I don't know how the application or GFX is going to line up with this, so will keep that generic for now.

`event_in` will contain a map of all possible inputs from external systems. I'm not sure whether to go for a polling or event driven approach yet, so this crate will strictly contain data structures.

`event_out` is another one I'll spin up now. Like `event_in` this will primarily be a mapping crate to translate internal app messages to something external systems can consume.

## 0856

I'm taking a bit of time to restructure the project layout. I really don't want to cross internal logic with external functionality as I want things to be relatively modular. 


Here's the current project structure now:
```
core_engine/
core_engine/core_modules
core_engine/external_modules
core_engine/src
```

Brief breakdown of the structure:
* `core_engine/` - Top level library that wires up the `core_modules` and `external_modules`.
* `core_engine/core_modules` - Contains all logic specific to the engine. Things like reconnection strategies, math implementations, input, output, collision detection.
* `core_engine/external_modules` - Contains all external dependencies that may change by platform. Things such as windowing, GPU rendering, socket IO, etc. 

The hope is that by doing this I can compose lower level crates into higher level functionality. The directory structure is a bit of a mess but we'll see how that goes.

Now that the restructure is done I'll keep working towards getting an application running.

