!!title User Actions in Lisp
!!summary Building out a CLI/interactive application in Lisp.
!!keywords rust nes emulator vm emulation gamedev wgpu  lisp c macro code generation rogue roguelike
!!series lisp lisp-game

## 0706

I'm getting much more familiar with Emacs. It's almost at the point where I have the keybindings memorized and going to VS Code feels awkward. Still going to keep using VS Code for blogging and work, but that will likely change in the future.

Today I started working on building out some functionality to get a user's choice. The value in this is I can build out an application in Lisp, leverage the REPL environment, then build a compiler to generate a different program. 

Why do it this way? Lisp is extremely high level. Combined with macros, I should theoretically be able to write a very complex application very quickly. I get to scratch the compiler itch by transpiling it to a different language and I get to develop an interactive app.

My first thought is to build a roguelike, but it really could be anything. Real time is not the goal yet but I could revisit that in the future. For now it will be turn based and utilize finite state machines (FSMs). FSMs are a fantastic way to encode choices and options that a user has.

Without further ado, I'll show off what I wrote today. I still need to determine the best way to initialize state and deal with executing actions but I have a few ideas.


I'll start by creating an `enumerate` macro which takes in a list, adds a number and maps it. This will prove useful later on when I need to match a users choice to an action.

```
;; Enumerates a list, converting it to the form:
;; '("a" "b" "c") -> '((0 "a") (1 "b") (2 "c"))
(defun enumerate (l)
  (cond
    ((null l) '())
    (t (let ((idx -1))
	 (mapcar
	  (lambda (x) (setq idx (+ 1 idx)) (list idx x)) l)))))
```

Next I'll build out some methods to operate on my choice options. I'll have a `choice-action` method to get a function that will be executed when a choice is made and a `choice-text` to get the text to display to a user.
```
;; Gets the action for a choice
(defun choice-action (choice)
  (cond
    ((null choice) (error "null choice in choice-action!"))
    (t (car (cdr choice)))))

;; Gets the text for a choice
(defun choice-text (choice)
  (cond
    ((null choice) (error "null choice in choice-text!"))
    (t (car choice))))
```


Finally I'll write a macro to print out the list of choices, get the user's selection and execute the action. It's not complete yet but I'll fill it in as time goes on.

```
;; Gets a choice from the user.
(defmacro execute-choice (&rest choices)
  `'(
     ,(print "-- Available options:")
     ;; TODO: nicely format the list of choices.
     ,(print (enumerate (mapcar 'choice-text choices)))
     ;; TODO: read in the user choice
     ;; TODO: if choice does not match choices, retry
     ;; TODO: else execute the method in the choices
     ,(print "NOW MAP THEM")))
```

I could easily see this being a function instead of a macro as I'm not doing anything too crazy yet. I'll keep thinking on what I actually want to build, but this will be the start.