!!title C Again
!!summary Playing with C and using Emacs
!!keywords c emacs header only low level scripting 
!!series 

## 0621

I'll admit, I flip flop a lot on projects. I do one thing, then pivot to something else. Such is life, I'm more concerned about the journey + learning things over shipping stuff.

I do want to release my content pipeline at some point, but it isn't really a priority. Black Friday is coming up, and I'd like to dedicate some time on whatever platforms I post it on. I'll save it for after when things cool off.

What will I be doing today? Experimenting with C libraries again.

I don't expect much to come out of it, but with the churn in the Rust team lately I would like to dig into another system level language to hedge my bets against it failing. Don't get me wrong, I fully want Rust to succeed, but I want to make sure I get exposure to other low level languages that aren't C++.

I'll want to use a lot of single header libraries for easy integration.

Here's what I'd like to play with:
* [Nuklear](https://github.com/Immediate-Mode-UI/Nuklear) for GUI
* [Sokol](https://github.com/floooh/sokol) for a variety of GPU, sound, and other libs
* [S7](https://ccrma.stanford.edu/software/snd/snd/s7.html) or [Duktape](https://duktape.org/) for scripting
* [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/) for windowing + sound


I'll work on integrating Duktape since I've done that in the past. 

## 0655

Well, that was relatively painless. The proper way to go about building this would likely be a `make` file, but I wanted to simply use a bash script as that's what I know.

```
# compile.sh
[ -d target ] &&rm -R target
mkdir target
gcc -std=c99 -Ilib/duktape src/main.c lib/duktape/duktape.c -lm -o target/game

./target/game.exe
```

Next up I simply took the Duktape tutorial and wired that into a program.

```
#include <stdio.h>
#include "duktape.h"

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
	duk_context *ctx = duk_create_heap_default();
	duk_eval_string(ctx, "1+2");
	printf("1+2=%d\n", (int)duk_get_int(ctx, -1));
	duk_destroy_heap(ctx);
	return 0;
}
```

There is a ton of work left to do, but I am up and running. The nice thing about using JavaScript is it is a language I am familiar with and I can also use some altJS languages if I really wanted to bring something else into play. Eventually I'll want to add in hot reloading, but that can be deferred a bit.

I think the next step for my project will be to integrate SDL2, Nuklear and Sokol. From there I effectively have a full development environment I can utilize.



