!!title C And Cross Platform
!!summary Adding cross compilation to support Linux, Macs and Windows.
!!keywords c emacs header only low level scripting s7 make makefile refactor placnk
!!series 

## 0810

Today I'll be working on getting my app compiling across Mac, Linux and Windows.

I did get SDL2 working yesterday, but ran into issues compiling on Linux and Mac. For better or worse whenever that happens, I simply start over.

For this go around I'm starting with at least three separate targets, Windows, Linux and Mac. I'll be building incrementally across all of them from the start to ensure things work as expected.

I'd like to try targeting web and mobile as well but not sure if it's required yet. I'll stick to multiple PC targets for the moment and evaluate other platforms later on.

I'm going to reference [this article on cross platform development](https://www.ski-epic.com/source_code_essays/ten_rules_for_writing_cross_platform_c_source_code.html) by Brian from Backblaze.

Here's the high points:
* Start cross platform from the first line of code.
* Simultaneously develop on all platforms. Reduces surprises and overhead.
* Factor the GUI into non-reuseable code. Develop a cross platform library for the underlying logic.
* Don't use platform specific types.
* Use only built in compiler flags, don't develop your own.
* Develop a simple set of reuseable libraries that abstract platform specific code.
* Use UTF-8 for all libraries.
* Don't use 3rd party application frameworks to make your code cross platform. Do it yourself.
* Raw source builds on all platforms, no script that transforms it.
* All programmers must compile on all platforms.
* Fire lazy devs.

That's an excellent list. I strongly suggest reading his article, as it's full of gems.

