!!title First Entry
!!summary The first post of the GGEZBB blog and a brief overview of what it's going to be about.
!!keywords ggez dns hosting apache miniclips elixir common lisp haskell ci cd
!!series

## The first entry

I'm not sure how this will end up. The intent was to create a [website](https://www.ggezbb.fun/) and start a blog. I learned how DNS works, as well as setting up hosting. There's a simple Apache server spitting out a static HTML page. This will evolve.

The GGezBB Projekt is a ridiculous name. That is the purpose. Whether it lands belly up or not remains to be seen. The current plan is to hack something together that will be the new MiniClips, one that can go across platforms.

I'll be starting with web. It's the fastest to iterate on as no other 3rd parties control your release cycle. Add in user action tracing, discover the hot paths, and let that guide the product. The goal here is not to enable selling of data. With the data regulations it makes most sense to design everything to be instantly deletable. 



The intent is to track what users are spending time on, what products could benefit from finer tuning. However caution must be taken to ensure that effort is best spent on what would provide the most profit and not get dragged down in minutiae of one thing at the expense of others.

The backend will be an Elixir based one. The web client will be an Alt JS. Why? Partly to learn a new language, partly because I do not really feel much interest in vanilla JS. 

Abstract data types are a joy to work with, and that is something I would like to proliferate across the code base. The mobile clients I haven't decided, PC is undecided and so is console. I'll deal with those later.

The intent is to utilize Common Lisp to generate the JS and perform other important functionality. I love Rust and Haskell, but Lisp is a language I've yet to do much in. I could certainly hack together something in those two, however language design and compilation is a strong interest. 

Being able to alter the language itself such as a Lisp is a mechanism I would like to explore. I can't say whether this will be a fruitful experience, but it is one I must attempt to see whether a Lisp is worth it. 

The ideal would be I get the code I need, can easily generate different cores for each platform and can do this in a fraction of the time it would take in another way. Is that possible? ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯

The blog posts will be tracked in my dev Github project as `YYYY.MM.DD_TOPIC.MD` files and rendered on the web. I'm not sold on making the repo public, but I may drop things I am not working on in other specific repos.

I can't say when I will publish these or what the release cycle will be. It may be daily, it may be weekly, or it may be a bulk upload of whatever whenever I feel like it. 

Automating this process may be a worthwhile investment. Ditto to the live version of my sites. It may be worth having a CICD pipeline that distributes everything and posts to social media. Alternatively a cron that runs at midnight and deploys everything.

Deployment is a topic I'd like to get into sometime.

L8r 
