!!title Finished
!!summary Wrapped up blog_gen and picking the next project.
!!keywords next project blog_gen gaming ai vr
!!series blog_gen

## 0645 - Retro on blog_gen

`blog_gen` is more or less complete. [Click here](https://github.com/ericrobolson/blog_gen) to check out the repo.

Before I discuss my next project I'll do a retro(spective). The purpose of a retro is to go over what went well, what went wrong, what to do differently next time.

Good
* Got a static site generator up and running
* Experimented with compiler design
* Finished
* Writing it twice helped solidify the second one and pointed out a lot of issues with the first implementation

Bad
* Took a long time towards the end
* Burnout was real

Change
* When doing the 'write it twice' approach, the first one should be done in a high level language to get it out as fast as possible. The rewrite will be done in a more maintainable language with additional functionality
* Experiment more with a hexagonal approach to architecture
* Ship daily

## 0653 - The next project

There are several avenues I would be interested in tackling:
1) Cross platform file syncing app. This would allow one to sync all files between computers, Google Drive and say Drop Box. The intent is to break dependency with a single vendor.
2) 3rd person shooter with VR port. This would be something inspired by Dead Space or Resident Evil 4. Perhaps with some Ill vibes. Procedural generation for weapons?
3) ML generated music. Feed in some music, a GAN spits out newly generated music.

The tech stack will be the following:
1) Rust for critical/native client side logic
2) Possibly Rust + Elixir combo for server side
3) Scheme as a 'glue' language
4) React + React Native for web + non performance critical client side code

## 2010

I've slowly started working on getting this automated and in a state where I don't need to do everything in one repo. My strategy is to have a 'working' repo where I hack on all current projects and then split things out as they evolve. Take `blog_gen` for example. V1 is wrapped up, so I put it in a repo and sent it. 

I'm doing the same with all my blog content. I don't know exactly whether this will be maintainable later on, but it at least gets me started and keeps all content contained in one place. I can now delete it from the working repo and do all blogging in here.

The next major step for the blog is to get it deploying automatically. I'll use Github actions to do this and get it up on my Digital Ocean droplet. Guess CICD is going on my resume.
