!!title A New Language
!!summary Thoughts on creating a new concurrent, gradually typed language.
!!keywords elixir erlang rust lisp concurrent new language process
!!series
## 2100

I am intrigued by Erlang + Elixir's processes. What would that look like in a more performant language that is native? The concurrency model + scheduling seems quite fantastic, perhaps that can be done as a language based off of Rust?

`#[catch_unwind]` and `#[no_panic]` should be researched to see how this could be done. 

The intent would be to get a compiled artifact that is as performant as Rust natively is, but is as concurrent as Elixir is. I'll refer to Erlang + Elixir interchangeably, but will tend towards Elixir. Ideally this would be used on all platforms, web + native. Not quite sure how that'd work out yet, but it's a nice idea.

While I love static types, perhaps a new concept would be a gradual typing. Something along the lines of a `Any` type. There would also be the abilty to 'clamp down' the types as time goes on, as well as type-classes from Haskell to perform conversions. A reason for this is this [StackOverflow post](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/a/105848). One can quickly prototype in a dynamic sense, utilizing the 'let it crash' philosophy, and tighten the types as use cases come along.

So the minimum features would be:
* Processes as a core part of the language, like Elixir
* Functional
* Let it crash philosophy, if a process dies it should not impact anything else
* Gradually typed
* ADTs
* Easy macros
* Extremely terse and simple 
* Easy way to directly call Rust or JavaScript code from libs

This language should follow the below cycle:
* Dogfooded + bootstrapped compiler
* Minimal `core` lib that can easily be ported anywhere
* A package manager, bootstrapped
* A small set of `std` modules that provide file i/o, etc.
* Based off of Rust with `async-std` or `tokio` for non-blocking io for native
* Pure JS for web
* [Language server](https://medium.com/ballerina-techblog/implementing-a-language-server-how-hard-can-it-be-part-1-introduction-c915d2437076) 

Looking at how the `blog_gen` project has gone, I think a key part will be releasing fast and releasing early. 