!!title Next Project
!!summary Posting ChickenTest and deciding where to go next.
!!keywords next project blog_gen gaming ai vr chicken scheme unit test
!!series chicken

## 0504 - Retro on blog_gen

I decided to throw my unit testing framework for Chicken Scheme into a separate repo. [Click here](https://github.com/ericrobolson/ChickenTest) to check it out.

I still plan on wiring up a CICD (continuous integration, continuous deployment) pipeline for this blog, though I'm guessing it will be slow progress. Devops (combination of development and IT operations) is a critical part of any organization but not my forte or passion.

More and more I find myself utilizing Linux and bash scripts to accomplish things. Why I ever manually did things I can't say. The time savings is real. Example: writing a script which fetches `blog_gen`, pulls the latest, runs the script against this project and generates the HTML. I suspect my asset pipelines will also change drastically if I get into gamedev. 

For picking project names, I'll usually look through my record collection and pick something that sounds cool. `August Moon` is off the first record in my collection, so that's the next working title.

The next choice I have to make is what is my tech stack? 

## 0635

I tried messing around a bit in C to see what that was like. It's still foreign to me. 

## 1622

I've been messing with embedding WASM (WebAssembly) in Rust. The WASM is generated by Rust. The purpose is to create a program that can be modded in a safe fashion.