!!title Rollback Netcode
!!summary Implementing a generic rollback netcode inspired by GGPO.
!!keywords rust gamedev no_std ggpo rollback netcode fighting game
!!series august_moon


## 0743

I've been working on adding a generic rollback netcode module. This does not take into account transport layers or anything of that sort, though I can see value in doing so. The purpose is to build out a purely algorithmic implementation where I can plug and play various games.

Not sure this is the best approach, but it will hopefully let me reuse functionality across games (or even other apps).

I don't think I'll go into the code quite yet, as this will drastically change over time. The basic algorithm is as follows:

1) Set up initial game state
2) Set up players (remote and local)
3) Register local input at the current frame + N. This is done to deal with remote player latency.
4) Tick the game state always. If a remote player input is received for a past frame, go back to the last 'confirmed' state and replay all inputs until the current frame. Save the most recent frame with all player inputs as the 'confirmed' state.

Like the previous posts, I'm taking a `no_std` approach to ensure maximum platform compatibility. I'm also using a finite state automata (FSM) for logic. That deserves another post, but the gist is that I can ensure logic occurs under certain scenarios.

Another thing I've started doing is a `check_targets` script which will build my crates against all possible architectures I may want. This way I can ensure I'm always writing code that will work.