!!title Sustainability and AI
!!summary It's a marathon not a race + AI.
!!keywords gym routine sustainable injury tech technical tensorflow keras pytorch
!!series

## 0632

I've been experimenting to figure out the optimal way to exercise when injured. Pretty sure I strained a finger while climbing a week ago, so I've been adjusting my gym routine to accommodate that. Grip heavy exercises are skipped and sometimes I'll straight up not go if it's noticeable before I head out. 

My mindset is becoming 'how can I do this in a sustainable fashion for a long time?' I suppose I also take that approach for my career, for art, for anything. 

Posting this every day is something I want to do. I'm not sure it will always be about technical things, as I don't always want to do technical things.

I want to experiment a bit with AI, with a final goal of generating music or art. There are several different paths, but like I talked about yesterday GANs (generative adversarial networks) are likely the path I'll take. 

These pit two AIs against each other, constantly evolving to come up with a way to detect whether an output is real or not. 

There are several frameworks to choose from, [Tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/), [Keras](https://keras.io/) or [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/). Each has pros and cons, each has different use cases. 

The primary factor I used for choosing them was ease of use and what was commonly used in research. I find the truly interesting algorithms are in white papers (aka research papers). Ease of use is key since I don't know what I'll be doing. 

I'll noodle on projects that I can do with these. I'm sure you'll see some posts about it here.